18   Consider the Bertrand duopoly model with homogeneous goods. Letting   p 1   and  p 2   denote the prices of firm 1 and 2, respectively, we have that the aggregate demand function for the homogeneous good is given by   Q ( p 1 , p 2 ) = 20   −   min { p 1 , p 2 } .   Because the product is homogeneous, all customers will only purchase a product from the firm that charges the lowest price.   In the eventuality both firms charge the same price, the demand is split evenly among the firms. Both firms have constant marginal costs. The marginal cost form firm 1 is given by  10 , while the marginal cost from firm 2 is given by   4 . Find the pure strategy Nash equilibrium from this game.  Pauta:   Notice that if firm 1 operated as a monopolist, it would choose   p 1   that maximizes  max  p 1  (20   −   p 1 ) p 1   −   10(20   −   p 1 ) .  Taking the FOC., we get:  20   −   2 p 1   + 10 = 0  p 1   = 15 .

--- Page 33 ---
Ejercicios de Práctica   33  If firm 2 operated as a monopolist, it would choose   p 2   that maximizes:  max  p 2  (20   −   p 2 )   −   4(20   −   p 2 ) .  Taking the FOC., we get:  20   −   2 p 2   + 4 = 0  p 2   = 12 .  In the following cases we denote   ε   as a very small number, which corresponds to the lowest monetary unit (like 1 cent).  Case 1:   p 1   >   12 . If   p 1   >   12 , firm 2’s best response is   p 2   = 12 , in which case firm 1 would have incentives to deviate and choose   p 1   = 12   −   ε . Therefore, we cannot have an equilibrium in which   p 1   >   12 .  Case 2:   10   < p 1   ≤   12 . If   10   < p 1   ≤   12 , firm 2’s best response is   p 2   =   p 1   −   ε , in which case firm 1 would have incentives to deviate and choose   p 1   =   p 2   −   ε .   Therefore, we cannot have an equilibrium in which   10   < p 1   ≤   12 .  Case 3:   p 1   = 10 . If   p 1   = 10 , firm 2’s best response is   p 2   = 10 − ε , in which case firm 1 would have no incentives to deviate: indeed if it chose a price higher than 10, it would get zero demand, and therefore, zero profits, the same payoff it gets if it does not deviate. If it chose a price below   p 2   it would capture the entire demand, but it would get negative profits, as it would be charging a price below its marginal cost. Because firm 1 has no incentives to deviate, we conclude that   p 1   = 10  and   p 2   = 10   −   ε   is   a NE. 5  Case 4:   4   < p 1   <   10 . If   4   < p 1   <   10 , firm 2’s best response is   p 2   =   p 1   −   ε , in which case firm 1 would have no incentives to deviate: if it chose a price above   p 2   it would get zero demand and therefore zero profits, the same payoff it gets if it does not deviate.   If it charged a price below   p 2   it would capture the entire demand, but it would get negative profits, as it would be charging a price below its marginal cost.   Therefore, any   4   < p 1   <   10   and   p 2   =   p 1   −   ε   is a NE. Notice, however, that these NE are not very realistic, as they imply firm 1 plays a weakly dominated strategy (recall that choosing a price below one’s marginal cost is a weakly dominated strategy in simultaneous move games).  Case 5:   p 1   = 4 . If   p 1   = 4 , firm 2’s best response is   p 2   = 4 , in which case each firm would get half of the demand. This means that firm 1 gets a negative profit, so that firm 1 would have incentives to deviate and choose a price above   4 . So we cannot have a NE in which   p 1   = 4 .  Case 6:   p 1   <   4 . If   p 1   = 4 , firm 2’s best response is any   p 2   ≥   4 , in which case firm 1 would capture the entire demand, but would get negative profits, so that it would have incentives to deviate.   So we cannot have a NE in which   p 1   <   4 . So for all effects and purposes, the only “interesting” NE from this game consists in firm 1 charging   p 1   = 10   and firm 2 charging   p 2   = 10   −   ε , where   ε   is the minimum monetary unit (e.g., one cent).  5 Notice that this answer is slightly imprecise if the set of actions from each player are the real numbers. However, if we assume that there is a minimum price unit like in real life, such as one cent, then we do not have to deal with this technically. Moreover, notice that in real life most economic variables are discrete: the only reason we work with continuous random variables is to simplify our lives. So there is no point in making a fuss about this technicality.

--- Page 34 ---
3 Juegos Simultáneos de Información Incompleta